
Welcome to the EnvMan documentation.
You can select the following topics.



«Introduction»What is EnvMan ?

«Copyright»For the distribution

«Using EnvMan»How to use it ?

«Installation»How to install it ?

«How To»You want it ? You'll got it ;)

«TroubleShooting»The undocumented features

«The Future»How to make it bigger and more complex

«The Author»If you don't know me

«Object User Interface»What is OUI ?

«Localisation»How to get a real catalog



For a very long time I did'nt bother at any time of what was placed in
my ENV: and ENVARC: directories and I let the stuff growing bigger and
bigger until one day I considered the fact that my system was containing a
LOT of environment variables, even for applications I have desinstalled a
long time ago.

Then I have realized that I had lost the control of a really important
part of the system which is the environnement.

First of all, I think that the environnement is too much used by
applications. Because a really smart alternative are the icon tooltypes.
Any program can have its options controled by the tooltypes
and the smart point is that if you launch a program with a project icon, it
will use the options set in this icon and not those of the tool icon.
Then you can have a lot of different options for the same program, each
controlled by a different project icon. In my humble opinion, the environment
variables should only be used if they are of interest for more than one
application which I believe they have been designed for.

The second point is that often, the environment variables are misused by
applications. This is because the variables are of three kinds : local, global
and archived. The local variables are used by few programs to set their
options and it is definitely a mistake because these variables only exist
with the process which created them. The only interest of local variables
is for setting temporary values such as SET ECHO ON of the shell.

The third point which I was not happy with is that if you create an
environnement variable, you have no simple way of modifying it. For example
you can not have it global easily.

Then I have designed what EnvMan should be:


· Since some programs set options which disappear at reboot time
or worse, at the end of their process, it should be easy with EnvMan to
set those as global so I can configure the application once and don't
bother about it later.

· It must of course, show me the contents of all the environment and how
much place it takes in memory.

· It must be easy with EnvMan to create, search or delete any environment
variable and to make promotion of a local variable to the global or archive
set (CLI only). The local variable should not be deletable since this can be
harmful to the system. I have also considered that grabbing local variables
from other processes would not be system friendly.

· The environment variables should be editable, if this can be done. Some
are just a text string and it makes no problem but other are text files
or even binary files such as IFF ILBM. The three methods are 1) A string
gadget, 2) A file edit feature and 3) An Import/Export feature. Please
note that the file edition uses C:Ed by default but looks at the environment
variable EDITOR which is also used by the More program and other utilities.
Setting the environment variable EDITOR to your favorite text editor is a must
and don't take a lot of place in memory.




EnvMan, Copyright © 1996 Dominique Lorre, All rights reserved



EnvMan is FreeWare, you can use it and distribute it like you want.


Restrictions


Distribution of EnvMan in a magazine cover disk or as part of another
product is subject to a signed agreement from the author. The distribution
of EnvMan on any free software collection such as Aminet is allowed without
a signed agreement but only as an independent product, not as an extra of
another application.


Conditions of distribution


The envman archive method (currently lha) can be changed provided that the
dearchiving program is available on Amiga or the new archive is self auto-extractable
on any Amiga system greater or equal to 2.0.
The archive contents must be preserved intact but you are authorized to add
a simple file belonging to your organisation if you want and are also welcome
if you add new translations of catalogs or help files (in this case I would prefer
if you send those directly to me so I could include them in the next release).


THE AUTHOR OF THIS PRODUCT CAN NOT IN ANY EVENT BEING HELD RESPONSIBLE
OF ANY DAMAGE DIRECT OR INDIRECT CAUSED TO YOUR DATAS. THIS PRODUCT IS
GIVEN AS IS AND IS SUBJECT TO CHANGES WITHOUT NOTIFICATIONS.



EnvMan usage is very simple. You can launch it either from the Shell or
the Workbench. There are no options since I didn't find any interesting
options to implement.

If you launch EnvMan from the Shell, you will find generally more information
since more local variables and alias will be declared, but this is not
always true, especially if your Shell has been launched without the
S:Shell-Startup initialization file. Some variables like RC, process and
Result2, are systems variables and you should not try to promote such local
variables, since other Shell programs might find this confusing. This
is the reason why I have disabled any modification or suppression of local
variables.

If EnvMan takes a LOT of time to appear, this means that you have a HUGE
environment size (200 Kbytes is NOT science-fiction !) and that a little
cleanup might help you gaining more RAM, more space to your SYS: partition
and also having a faster booting process since the environment is transfered
at every boot time from ENVARC: to ENV:...

Then, when EnvMan has checked all of your environment, it creates a window
with three lists one for the local variables, one for the global ones and the
third list is for the archives. There is also a button for the create/search
facility. The GUI considerations are discussed under the OUI paragraph.

In the lists, all the environment variables are displayed in the alphabetical
order with their full path name. I did not implement a directory based display
since I noticed that some variables are quite hard to search for since they
can be hidden under two or three directories nodes. However, I can change my
mind in the future, especially if many users ask for it with good reasons.
After the variables name, you will find the beginning of their contents and
will be able to identify their types (for example an IFF file will begin
with the FORM letters).

To edit a variable, just click on it into the list and a window will open with
the following settings :

 : the box is checked if the variable is an alias. You can
not modify this state.

 : the box is checked if the variable is local. This is not modifiable.

 : checking this box promote your variable to Global and unchecking it
delete the variable from ENV:

 : checking this box promote the variable to Archive and unchecking it
delete the variable from ENVARC:.

 : the variable is probably a binary file, since EnvMan has detected
control codes. You cannot modify this state.

 : the variable is a string with a Null character at its end. This
state may not be modified but the variable is editable via a string gadget.

 : the size of the variable.

 : the name of the variable. You can edit the name if you want but it
has no effect in this version.

 : the contents of the variable will be displayed. If the conditions
are good, you will be able to modify the contents inside the string gadget.
Good conditions are : the variable is not binary and it is global or archived.
Note that you can modify a local variable but this will have effect only if
you check the Global or Archived box since local variables are READ-ONLY.
This also means that the local part will NEVER be modified.

 : click on this button to Edit the variable. The file editor will
be C:Ed or the EDITOR variable contents.

 : click on this button to replace the contents of this variable
by a file of your choice.

 : click on this button to make a copy of this variable in a file of
your choice.



How to create a new variable ?

You can create a new variable by selecting the button Create/Sarch

How to edit a variable ?

By selecting the variable on the list where it appears

How to delete a variable ?

You can delete a variable by first editing it and setting the Global and
Archived attributes to off

How can I modify the contents of a variable ?

If the variable is a single text string you can modify it with a string gadget
other possibilities are Import/Export and Edition.

Why can't I modify or delete a local variable ?

This may be a source of problems to your system but you can still promote
it to global or archived and modify it later.

The lists are very long, how can I find a variable quickly ?

When you select the create/search button, a new variable will only be
created if it was not existing already. If you specify the name of an
existing variable, the variable will be found and displayed.

What does [ALIAS] mean ? I can't have those variables promoted !

Yes, alias are special local variable that are generally declared in
the S:Shell-Startup file. Alias allow renaming of long command lines to
a shorter command. Modifying is not allowed since it can be a source of
troubles. If you want to modify those you will be obliged to edit the
S:Shell-Startup file.

Why can't I edit a file variable ?

EnvMan checks if a file variable is text only. If not, you can still Export it
to a file, modify it and Import it after the modifications have been made.

